That was all on iterators and generators.
We go to garbage collection, also fun.
So one important thing about
garbage collection is that,
all depends on the availability from
the global lexical environment.
So here we have that object,
our object that then points to the object
in memory with age and johndoe and
then address is another object
which is another object in memory.
Now, if we set a variable equal to
the address property on object,
we're actually just creating
a reference to that object in memory.
So now if we set object to null,
it will remove that reference from
the declarative environment record.
But because it address still
has a pointer to that object,
that address used to point to it,
that won't get garbage collected cuz
it's still reachable from
the global lexical environment.
Now, we can also have
them point to each other.
So we have objA and objB and
their properties both point to each other.
But now if we set objA and
objB to null, objA and
objB are kind of still there and
they still reference each other, but
they aren't referenceable anymore
from the global lexical environment.
And this is a pretty recent thing cuz
older JavaScript engines now used to say,
okay, well, there is still a reference
though to objB and to objA,
namely through objA and objB.
But the newer ones say,
if they aren't reachable from the global
lexical environment,
then we garbage collect them.
Even though there was still a reference,
that's fine, but
if we cannot reach them ever,
then why keep them?
But that's only well,
a newer garbage collection method.
Yeah, anyway, that's all
the garbage collection really is.
But now question 25,
which of the following statements
are true about a WeakMap?
Keys are strongly referenced and
the values are weakly referenced.
Keys are weakly referenced and
the values are strongly referenced.
It is innumerable,
allowing iteration over its elements.
It can have primitive data types as keys,
and
we can use the key method on the WeakMap,
but not values.
The right answer, is only B,
which is keys are weakly referenced and
the values are strongly referenced.
So first, I just wanna show a quick
example with a regular map, so
not a WeakMap.
And in this case, we have you user,
which is just a regular object
with a name property, johndoe.
And then userSessionata, which is a Map.
And we're setting the key to user,
so a reference to that object.
And then we just have some sessionInfo, so
just imagine that's another
object with some information.
Now, what happens is that if
we set user to null also,
there's no reference anymore from
the global lexical environment to that or
we're just having that to null there.
Because map still has a strong
reference to that object,
it doesn't get garbage collected.
But there is no way to get that object.
So it's kind of just a waste
of having that object there,
cuz there's no way to get it.
We cannot get that user object
through userSessionData.
So what WeakMap does is it
actually creates a weak reference,
which essentially says that,
if we set user to null,
because it's a weak reference, the garbage
collector can actually garbage collect it,
which is just that's all that WeakMap is.
So if the object that we're using
as a key doesn't exist anymore or
we're setting it to null, then it also
gets garbage collected on the WeakMap.
Even though it kinda still had
a reference from the global
lexical environment through like
the userSessionData map, but
it's like a weak reference,
so it gets garbage collected.
Yeah, yeah, sorry.
>> What does it mean for
the value to be strongly referenced there?
>> So it just means if we remove
them sessionInfo, it's fine.
It won't do anything
with map entry kind of.
But again, it's just about, cuz you
can only get data from a map by using
userSessionData.get, and
then with the reference to that object.
But if we're setting it to null, there
is no way to get that object anymore.
You cannot get a property from the map
through its value, only through its key.
So that's why it's important that if
you're using objects that can be removed,
I don't know, maybe DOM elements.
Or yeah, a userSession and a user
logs out and you're somehow have that
user reference, maybe on the global
scope or in local storage if they log
out that you don't keep reference
to that user property in the map.
But yeah, for
value doesn't matter cuz you cannot
get the property through that anyway.
Yeah, Anyway, next, sorry.
The next question, so
we have another closure, but
when will enter a function be eligible for
garbage collection?
Is it by invoking outer function?
Is it by explicitly setting
outer function to null?
Is it automatically garbage collected
right after outer is called?
Or it depends on the JavaScript
engine's garbage collection strategy.
So the right answer is B, by explicitly
setting outer function to null.
So this is kind of the setup
that we have here.
So we have an outer function on
the object environment record that points
to the outer function object.
Then we have an outer function variable,
declarative const, so
it's on the declarative
environment record.
And that one points to the function
object returned from the outer function.
So by just calling outer, there's still a
reference to the inner function object, so
it won't get garbage collected cuz
it's still referenceable through
the global lexical environment.
So it's only if we set it to null,
imagine we set it to null,
that we remove that reference from outer
function from the declarative environment
record, and
only then will it be garbage collected.
So it's just kind of the entire
closure environment, again,
where we have a reference to the function
object which then also has a reference
to either lexical environment and
the outer function object.
So it's all still there in memory
if we just kept it this way.
Make sense?
Cool, then we go on to the next question.
Which statements are true
regarding this code snippet?
The object b:1 will be garbage collected,
ref still references b:1 so
it won't be garbage collected.
The entire object object is retained in
memory due to the reference in ref, or
setting object to null frees
all memory associated with it.
So the right answer is B,
still references b:1.
So it won't be garbage collected.
So this is, stuff that we have, so
we have objects and we have ref.
And ref reference is B, objA.
So whenever we set object to null,
that's fine, that gets removed.
But because we still have a reference to
b from the global lexical environment,
it won't get garbage collected,
cuz we can still get it.
So, B.
>> That means if we were to
console log graph, it would still-
>> It will point to b:1.
But of course not, the object with a that
had b:1 as a reference, that's gone.
But the B object is still there.
All right, question 8,
it's again, WeakMap.
You can get a list of all keys in
a WeakMap using its keys where you cannot
get its values.
I feel like this is like a duplicate
kind of stuff I just have but it's fine.
So it's a true false.
All right, and the answer here is false.
I don't know if I have, yeah,
so the thing with, sorry,
this should have been WeakMap not map.
The thing with the fact that it's
keys are weakly referenced is
that JavaScript doesn't know if
they still exist cuz the garbage
collection cycles are kind of random.
It depends on different factors when
it happens it's not just at a set time.
It's not after a function invocation, that
garbage collection happens, it's just kind
of whenever the engine decides that
right now is the right moment.
So if we were to iterate over a WeakMap,
it might as well be that during that
iteration, it gets garbage collected or
it's just very inconsistent.
So because of that, we cannot iterate or
pretty much do anything with a WeakMap.
Because maybe at the moment of
iteration is already garbage collected,
all that kind of stuff.
So we can get data, we can get
userSessionData.getUser, that's fine.
But we cannot get keys or values, even
though values are strongly referenced, but
we cannot do that.
We can do that with a map, but not with
a WeakMap due to the inconsistency of
the availability of the keys.
All right, this one's kind of related
to scope and garbage collection.
But when will a user be eligible for
garbage collection?
Is it immediately after each iteration,
after the loop completes?
Only if we explicitly set
a user to null within a loop?.
Or when the function containing
the loop finishes execution.
And the right answer is A,
immediately after each iteration.
So as I said, this is kinda just related
to scope again, but that body of
the for-of loop, it creates a new
lexical environment on every iteration.
So the variables that we defined within
that body get re-initialized every time.
It's important to remember that it's
only eligible for garbage collection,
doesn't mean that they're immediately
garbage collected, as I just said,
cuz the timing at which that happens is
random depends on many different factors
when it's the most optimal for the engine.
That's just some internal algorithms,
so I don't know the specifics off, but
it's just pretty inconsistent.
But yeah, within a for loop,
variables declared within that can get
garbage collected on every iteration.
So don't create a constant count
variable and then it, I don't know,
use that value on the next iteration,
that won't work cuz it's a new variable
each time, new lexical environment.
So this one is kind of both the event
loop and garbage collection, but
what gets logged?
So we have the object, object that
has a bar method with console(this).
We have a setTimeout that
invokes object.bar, and
then we have to queueMicrotask
that deletes object.bar.
So what gets logged, is an object, window,
setTimeout, undefined, or TypeError?
All right, the right answer
to this one is a TypeError.
And this happens because we are deleting
object.bar in the queueMicrotask.
And as you know,
the microtask runs before the regular task
that we define in the setTimeout callback.
So first we delete object.bar,
and then when that microtask
queue is empty, the callback.
So object.bar gets push to the call stack,
but we are trying to invoke something that
doesn't exist anymore cuz we just
deleted that in the microtask.
So then JavaScript is, well, you cannot
invoke undefined, it's not a function.
So it throws the type error
>> How much are you thinking about garbage
collection, day to day work?
>> Quite a lot.
I mean,
it depends on how you
structure your objects and
how you reference certain things.
And I think it also depends on classes,
as we just said, with the prototypes or
the constructors.
Of course, it depends on the type
of data you're working with,
but it can be a considerate or
a considerable difference in how
much memory you're allocating.
And yeah, also the fact that certain
things are pretty inconsistent, you don't
know when stuff gets garbage collected,
is just something to keep in mind as well.
Cuz I think a lot of people,
they expect all right,
well I'm setting this to null now so
it should be gone, and then it's not, so
just knowing that it doesn't
depend on certain factors.
Or it does depend on certain factors, but
it doesn't always execute
at the same time.
It's also just good to know in
case your app is running into
memory issues in general.
But it is important to
know just how it works and
how we can optimize it using QuickMaps,
ensuring that we aren't just referencing
objects that we aren't using anymore for
no reason.
Yeah, and just understanding that
if you are creating a reference,
it will retain that in memory.
And if you're not using anymore,
then try to remove that reference.
I don't know, small stuff like that.
Just don't keep stuff in the heap for
no reason or in memory for no reason.
Yeah.
>> That example for line number 10,
if that line, [COUGH] if that line is
object or bar equal null, it will have
the same error type error, correct?
>> Yes, because we cannot invoke null.
[LAUGH]
>> It will just garbage collected in that
moment.
Yeah, we said object.
>> JavaScript runs at line 10.
>> Yeah.
>> It's gone.
>> Exactly, cuz then object.bar
is undefined cuz it's nothing.
And then we're trying to invoke undefined.
It's like, can't do that.
>> Do you use queueMicroTask instead of
something like request animation frame or
different use or?
>> It's a different use case cuz I believe
request animation frame depends on,
it he 16 frames per second?
Loop it uses a different like timing for
that?
You microtasks, yeah, I haven't used
you or queueMicrotasks I think anytime.
But I know that it's more for
optimization for, gosh,
library authors that depend
watching the animations or,
gosh, I forgot the word, but, yeah.
>> How do you think about garbage
collection if you're creating a game in
JavaScript?
>> Creating games?
I haven't created a game in,
[LAUGH] JavaScript, so I wouldn't know.
But I think, of course,
anything you render, if it's an object,
if it's not currently in the view,
you might as well just remove it.
But again,
I'm not the one to talk about that.
I know there are a lot of game
developers with JavaScript, but
I don't think I should give
my opinion on [LAUGH] that.
But, I don't know, do, yeah.
>> Yeah,
I think in the case of single-page apps,
they tend to just create a lot of objects,
and there's a lot of dependencies.
And so I think, Yeah,
just creating less memory.
>> Yeah, just like reusing it.
If you have an object, the same with
knowing that, if you're using an object
and you're spreading it, like a square
bracket is spreading an object,
you're creating a new object,
do you always need to do that?
Or maybe you just want to create
a variable that points to the same object
if you're not gonna modify, just
understanding the small differences again,
it kind of accumulates, right?
As your app grows, those small changes
might lead to better performance
overall but-
>> Yeah, every time you spread, you create
a new object and you're just if you're
doing spreading in a loop, and you're
doing it because you like immutability-
>> Yeah.
>> That's not really a great reason-
>> Yeah, really-
>> That much.
>> Knowing where to define certain
variables if you only use it in a loop,
just keep it in that loop.
Cuz then afterward,
it can get garbage collected, otherwise,
it will just stay in memory.
And of course, on a smaller scale also
JavaScript engines are so optimize.
I don't really care about those micro
optimizations about tiny, tiny bits.
But as I said, it can accumulate and
just knowing where certain errors may come
from, certain performance issues may come
from, it can definitely help you debug or
get to the conclusion a lot faster.